# NobelPrize-DataMining
data mining of Nobel prize laureates acdemic information

data source: https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/6NJ5RN

Nobel prize is one of the highest prize in scientific world. It is not only a great honor in academia, but also has enormous influence on the whole society. It represents the highest level of human intelligence and the prize-winning works have deeply changed the world. The project I would like to propose is focusing on data mining of Nobel prize laureates’ academic information. Personally, I has strong curiosity on the laureates of Nobel prize, as I have been working on hard science for many years. I believe that Nobel prize is the "diamond of the crown” which has been dreamed of by every researcher. Moreover, the data mining project provides deep insights on the experiences of the laureates, which would serve as guidance for general researchers. In addition, the conclusions obtained from this project would help predict the future laureates, which potentially has great business interest. 

This project is done with a recent published dataset by Harvard. It provides academic information of almost all Nobel laureates in physics, chemistry, and physiology or medicine from 1900 to 2016. Specially, the data mining done in this project includes three parts. First, statistics was used to find when the prize-winning paper was published during the laureates’ career. Out of expectation, the conclusion is that the laureates show their talents at the really beginning of their career, rather than after they became more experienced. This provides strong information for predictions of future laureates. Second, linear regression was done to predict how long in average the laureate has been waiting to get the award after the remarkable work was published. As we know, this prize is not awarded posthumously. Therefore, the time lag plays an important role in final decisions. After data mining, we see that the time lag is increasing linearly with time. This discovery supports a fun fact in some ways: the longer you live, the better your research is. So keep healthy! Last, the favorite journals in each discipline are obtained in this project. This information helps researchers make decisions of submissions. Also, this would serve as the key information in prediction of future laureates.

This project could be further extended in two perspectives. First, geometric information could be further explored and presented on maps. Second, with more data of other researchers that have not yet won Nobel, classification could be done to help future predictions, and unsupervised machine learning could help discover the key features of the previous laureates, which would provide guidance on students and researchers. 




